# Investment-Support-System
Decision support system to aid e-commerce investors

1.   Project Introduction
 	Specifically, this project is a stock DSS which aims to combine clarity of presentation and fluidity of navigation, with comprehensiveness of analyses and efficiency of provision of vital information to a potential investor, whilst particularly aiming to maintain ease of use and understandability.
The welcome page provides the potential investor with a straightforward introduction and an easy to use, yet effective interface which can be used to seamlessly navigate throughout the system. 
A simple menu displays two options which are selectable via clickable buttons. One button brings the user directly to the single stock analysis section of the DSS, whilst the other brings the user directly to the three stocks analysis section of the DSS. Similar buttons are located on the other two visible sheets. They aim to provide efficient, effortless navigation around the system.
Thanks to a macro, regardless of which sheet the Excel document was last saved on, the welcome page will always be initially presented on screen upon opening the workbook.
Actions performed by all recorded macros in the system are highly fluid and seamless, thanks to the addition of a specific line of code which eliminates bothersome screen updating and flickering.

2.   Single stock:
 	This section of the DSS focuses on offering the potential investor a comprehensive analysis of the performance of each individual stock, whilst still ultimately aiming to prioritise usability, understandability, and clarity. 
The user is initially encouraged to select from the two sets of options in the drop-down menu. One set alternates between each respective company. The other set alternates between the specific datasets the potential investor wishes to analyse.
On the left of the screen, important financial ratios and interpretable statistics are prominently displayed. In addition, located towards the bottom, there is a simple risk-evaluation system containing a calculated beta-value. When the user selects an alternative company from the drop-down menu, these all change immediately and seamlessly to display the correct information for the selected company in a condensed manner.
On the right of the screen, the user is presented with a background of the selected company, as well as hyperlinks which navigate to relevant financial statements. Also presented are vital information on the performance of the stock and some key company financials. Similarly to the previously described information on the left of the screen, these all change automatically when a different company is selected from the drop-down menu. 
The prominent two buttons, respectively labeled “Charts” and “Clear”, are quite central to the function this DSS aims to provide to the potential investor.
 “Charts” generates three pivot charts which display graphical information based primarily on the options selected in the drop-down menu. The largest chart presents the historical price of the share over a selected period. The smaller charts respectively display the volume of shares traded and the daily percentage change in the price. These charts aim to provide the investor with easily interpretable information on the trends in each share’s mean price and volatility, as well as trends in the volume of shares traded.
“Clear” removes all charts displayed on the screen. To avoid clogging the screen, the user is encouraged to utilise this button prior to attempting to generate a new set of charts. If the user accidentally clicks the “Clear” button when no charts are displayed, a recorded macro generates a dialog box to explain the user’s mishap and to instruct him/her on how to proceed.

3.   Three stocks:
 	This is the comparative section of the DSS. It primarily focuses on clarity of presentation, fluidity of navigation, ease of use, and efficiency of provision of vital information to the potential investor.
The user is presented with a simple system containing an easily understandable menu, from which he/she may choose from five different buttons.
Button number one generates three pivot charts. These provide a very direct and efficient comparative analysis of the three respective stocks in terms of historical price, volatility, and volume. This can provide the potential investor with an easily understandable, yet highly informative and immediate initial impression and overview of the stocks’ relative performances. The user may also make us of easily applicable filters to view desired companies and/or time periods.
Button number two generates three pivot tables in a very similar manner. These tables present the raw historical data in a condensed, presentable, understandable manner. If pivot charts have been generated prior, this button automatically clears them before generating the tables. The first button operates similarly, clearing tables before generating the charts.
Button number three provides the simple function of clearing the screen of any charts or tables. It does so in a seamless way such that there is no possibility of generating an error dialog box. This emphatically contributes to the fluidity and usability of the system.

What’s very important to mention are the workings of the macros which generate the charts and tables throughout the workbook. The datasheets used to generate these are hidden by default. When the user selects a button to generate a chart or table, the macro assigned to it unhides the relevant datasheet(s), extracts the data, and generates the chart/table. The macro thereafter hides the datasheet(s) before navigating back to the original page and displaying the desired chart/table. Of course, this quite extensive, tedious process is conveniently hidden from the user by the macro aforementioned in the project introduction.
